if you're going to be doing a vertical
installation and going up through the
roof and doing that on the outside of
the house there's actually two different
ways that you can do it the first day
the way that we'll go over it is you'll
again take the 3-inch pipe adapter and
hook that onto the back of your
appliance and secure that with a clamp
hook on to your 3-inch diameter pipe go
out through the wall using the wall
thimble and once you get to the outside
of the house you would install was
called a three inch to four inch
clean out tee and you want to make sure
you have your clean all teeth so that
you're able to take the cap off and
clean your venting out as you go
vertically otherwise you would have to
take the whole venting system apart but
you would attach this on to the venting
and then you would go up from there
through the roof and terminate now if
you wanted to start off with four inch
diameter venting right away off the back
of the unit you would use a three to
four inch pipe adapter and so you'd go
onto the back of the stove put your
clamp on then what you would do is you
would hook this directly onto your four
inch pipe and then using a four inch
wall thimble
you would go out of the home and then at
that point you could either terminate if
you're doing a horizontal installation
or you can put on a 4-inch clean-out tea
and go up and out through the roof of
your home one thing that's very
important no matter how you put the
venting together whether it's a vertical
installation whether it's a horizontal
installation you want to make sure that
you have adequate clean-out tees and
ways to clean the venting so that you
don't have to tear the venting
completely apart every time you want to
clean your appliance you want to make
sure and check your venting at least
once a month to make sure that it's free
from debris and make sure that you take
your clean-out tees off and clean all
debris out from their chimney system if
your appliance has been installed
correctly and if your home is balanced
and you have fresh air hooked to the
unit you could get by for several months
without cleaning your venting system
when you're installing a magnum
fireplace insert or country flame
fireplace insert you want to make sure
that the venting configuration is
designed from the beginning for ease of
maintenance ease of installation and so
that it won't come apart when you put
the appliance into the fireplace what
we'll do in this section is explain a
few things that can be done when you're
designing your fireplace insert and if
that fireplace that happens to be on the
outside of a wall you may want to
terminate the venting by cutting a hole
access hole through the back of the
masonry fireplace and go right outside
so that you can have a vertical
termination and then seal off your
chimney but if you need to go up the
chimney as in the case of chimney being
on the interior of the home you're gonna
want to prepare things and the first
thing you want to do is clean the
chimney system so call up yourself a
professional
chimney cleaner have them come in and
have them check this chimney for cracks
and things clean it out very well clean
the entire fireplace opening and then
seal it so that you won't get any of the
old creosote and smoke smell that was in
your wood-burning fireplace once that's
been done and your fireplace insert is
ready to insert in there's a few things
that you want to do ahead of time to
sure that you'll be able to get the
fireplace out and the first thing is is
design your system so that the venting
will be flexible and typical insulation
would be depending on the appliance is
you would again hook on the three inch
adapter onto the back of the unit or in
some cases you would want to hook on the
three to four inch adapter because if
your chimney is thirty feet tall
you're gonna want to switch over to four
inch our manufacturers recommendation is
is that immediately after you leave the
fireplace chamber that you would go with
4 inch liner all the way up and out the
chimney system this is not a code
requirement but it is something that we
as manufacturers would like you to do to
get the best benefit and to make sure
that you don't have operational problems
so typically what would happen is you
would hook a clean-out T onto the pipe
adapter or you can use a special
clean-out T that has the adapter built
right into it and you hook that onto the
back of the unit and secure it very
tightly make sure that your clean-out T
is sitting at a 45 degree angle coming
off the back of the unit and the reason
you want to do that is when you hook the
Flex tubing that goes on to the unit on
to the clean-out T you want to be able
to flex this thing in different
directions so that it can go up from the
back of the unit up around and go up the
chimney system allowing you enough
flexibility in the system so that you'll
be able to pull the unit out should you
need servicing in the future you want to
make sure that you have some type of a
flex in a kind of like an S curve that's
built into the Flex system so that that
unit will move in and out of the unit
freely once that's done you can put
rigid pipe or you can hook flex liner
onto the end of this system and go up
and out the chimney system making sure
that you seal both the bottom and the
top of the chimney and insulate the top
two feet of the chimney system you're
also going to have to make sure that you
can route your fresh air safely in
adequate
the best way to route your fresh air is
to go down in out the bottom of the
fireplace insert and out through an ash
dump or out through the back of the
existing fireplace if you have to go up
through the chimney system make sure
that when you go up and out that you do
not terminate the fresh air close to the
exit for the exhaust or contaminated
exhaust will come down the fresh air and
into the system and it will contaminate
the fire there are several types of
termination caps that you would put on
to the top when you terminate a
fireplace insert this is a typical one
here it's called a vertical termination
cap when you put these on you want to
make sure and check them periodically
through the winter to make sure they
don't fill up with debris birds don't
try to build something in there and or
it freezes over and causes the appliance
to malfunction